# Project Proposal 
## Los Angeles County has a melting pot of individuals not only in terms of race and ethnicity, but also in wealth. There is a homeless epidemic that only worsened during and after COVID-19. The large vast of differences in Los Angeles triggers the insight of exactly what communities can be impacted to reduce the level of poverety across the county. By impacting certain demopgraphic groups, and providing direct public serves may reduce the probibility of individuals experiencing poverty and subsequently homelessness. For my project I will be focusing on the relationship between educationall attainment and poverty. My research questions is: *How does educational attainment impact individual povety levels across different demographic groups? 


As a public servant, it is important for me to identify all the possible ways to impact the lives of our community members to attain a better way of life. Poverty impacts not only those currently experiencing it but can impact generations to come, and can create a viscious life cycle hard to break free from. Children in poverty are more likely to become lower socioeconomic status adults who accumulate less wealth than their parents [Breaking the Intergenerational Cycle of Disadvantage: The Three Generation Approach](https://europepmc.org/article/pmc/pmc4894258). 

My project is going to focus on Los Angeles County, as a public servant for the county I am able to produce recommendations based on the data and potentially apply directly at my department for impact. Los Angeles is a diverse population that can give insight on how poverty affects different socialeconomic groups and how educational attainment can increase their ability to prevent poverty among their families. The county has a number of problems that need to be acknowledged like homelessness, housing, drug abuse, and mental health problems. Povery may be at the center, a root cause of sorts, and by treating the root cause, the solution for the rest may follow. 

Two data sets I will be using for this project are [S1701Poverty Status in the Past 12 Months](https://data.census.gov/table/ACSST1Y2023.S1701?g=050XX00US06037) and [Below Poverty (census tract)](https://data.lacounty.gov/datasets/lacounty::below-poverty-census-tract/about).

Due to the large vastness within Los Angeles County, I expect visually to be able to see what communities are at a disparity and should be the focus of intended public service impact efforts. I also expect to be able to visualize educational attainment as an identifying factor between communites with lower povery rates. I hope to gain a better understanding of how educational attainment affects a populations ability to earn livable wages and be able to remain above poverty levels. Should the outcome be what I expect, programs can be identified to directly affect the ability for community members to achieve educational attainment in the hopes of decreasing overall poverty rates in Los Angeles Couunty. 
